---
layout: post
title:  "**"Some Additional Things To Know About Site Publishing"**"
date:   2017-03-22 15:56:47 +0000
---

# 
Being new to web development, there is a lot for me to learn. As I've delved into site publishing two questions have arisen, first,  what does it cost to publish a website and how can it be done with elegance and thriftiness?  Another quesion, once you publish a website, what does it take to support and maintain it?
To answer the first question of cost, the cost can range from virtually free to hundreds of thousands of dollars!  The cost can vary depending on what you want to  accomplish with your website and what kind of quality and control you want for it.  Lets consider what is needed to create your website. First, you won't get far without a computer ($250 to $3,000+) and modem, so add that to the tally.  Also, internet is important, and depending on how much bandwidth you need, you might need to pay for DSL, cable or fiber access ($60 + per month).  Next, you'll need the appropriate software, text editors, some of which are free (here's some of the thrifty part) and highly effective (contributing to the elegant part) and some of which can cost up to $200.  Also, you'll need image editors (with prices that can range from $0 to $300 +), media editors (also ranging from $0 to $300+) and publishing tools: FTP client (lots of reliable and free options).
Next, you'll need to find a hosting provider.  Hosting providers charge you according to how much bandwidth your website consumes.  This is dependent on how much traffice your site gets at any given time and on how much server space your content fills (hint: free up some of this space by storing videos on dedicated services such as Youtube or Vimeo).  Generally, reliable, paid personal hosting costs around $10 to $15 per month. You could consider free hosting, though you need to consider some of the disadvantages with free hosting such as, having no control over the advertising providers may add to your content, and having less freedom and control over your site in general. If you opt for paid hosting, you will also need to purchase a domain name from a registrar, these are usually $5 to $15 per year.
If you want a professional website, you might be better off looking to a web agency to do it for you, here costs are dependent on multiple factors such as the websites complexity, how often you want it updated, whether or not you want it to connect to internal data in your company, whether you want popular new features, etc.  Also included here are possible hosting costs for using redundant servers, wanting to have around-the-clock service available, and prefering  high-profile, ultra-responsive dedicated servers.  Depending on how many of these features and services are aquired for your website you could be paying hundreds of thousands of dollars!
Now lets consider what it takes to support and maintain a website.  Maintaining your website is important in keeping it running smoothly and in giving visitors a pleasant experience, insighting them to keep accessing your site and to recommend it to others.  Website support and maintance involves several areas including, updates, feature additions, backups, monitorinig outages, keeping up with domain registration information, testing website speed, checking links, updating software, analizing stats, checking and enhancing search engine results, reputation management, etc.  When any or all of these areas are neglected a website can easily fall into a low to no traffic funk or just become obsolete all together.  
Let's look at the how an why these areas involved in website maintenance. One important aspect of web maintanence is keeping your content up to date and adding new features where needed.  If your website is involved in ecommerce you will want your product information up to date and it is important to announce any price changes or discontinuations.  Keep on top of your social proof, such as outside reviews and articles  about you so that visitors can see what others are saying about you.  Announce changes and introduce new terrain covered by the website or new staff members interacting with the users.  Have giveaways to create buzz about your site.  Update old content so visitors can see that you are on top of the subject. Fix usability issues and add new features where needed, such as button links to your social media networking sites.
Other pertinant areas of web maintenance mentioned were backing up your website and monitoring outages.  Do not depend on your host to back up your website, do it for yourself too, this can keep you from losing many hours of work in case of an untimely crash.  Monitor outages so that you are the first to know if your website is down and can make notifications to users. Test and improve the speed of your website speed inorder to keep the interest of the typical web surfers of short attention spans. Check your external and internal links and fix broken ones. Update any third party software you use, these update include security updates that are import and need to be current. Analyze your website stats so you know who is using your website and how it is being used, this way you can check for hotlinking and detect possible problems with your content and bandwidth being stolen. Keeping up with and enhancing search engine results and managing your reputation will help keep your website in the limelight.
So much is involved in site publishing and thereafter.  What a fun and challenging field to work in!  How important it is to stay current, stay flexible, and stay on top of what is happening with your websites and any pertinant technology too.

[developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/How_much_does_it_cost#Browsers](http://)

http://www.webpagemistakes.ca/maintain-website/[](http://)

