---
layout: post
title:  "Why Learn Software Development?"
date:   2017-03-01 15:44:57 +0000
---


   	 Deciding to pursue a career as a software developer is an interesting choice for me.  I've never been what some would characterize as a "techie".  I like computers and make use of technology everyday, but my interests have mostly involved what's outside, back packing, climbing, exploring, even wildcrafting and foraging.  
	However, I did grow up with software development "action" in my family.  My father has a computer science degree from the Coast Guard Academy and I have an uncle who has worked full-time as a software developer for a few decades now. Boy do I wish I had let them teach me when I was a kid.  I remember my dad working on MV Base with me, we made a program together that could print out text filled shapes (I remember especially liking the hearts).  But. . . I wasn't really interested in going any further with it at the time.      
 	Now, software development is back on my radar.  Having four beautiful, rambunctious children that I want to stay home with has something to do with it.  Software development, as a career, has the potential to offer a flexibility and diversity that could mesh very well with motherhood.  Also, I like the possibility of creativity that writing code offers, it challenges your intellect and sparks imagination, not to mention that out of it can come something very useful, maybe even life changing for others.
	Becoming a naturopathic doctor is another one of my ambitions that a career in software development could greatly influence and enhance.  I have long had an interest in nutrition and herbs and have worked in the field of natural medicine under a naturopath/chiropractor.  I have also worked in mental healthcare and have a passion for helping hurting people (whether their struggles are physical, mental or both).  I would like to use naturopathic medicine not only to address physical well-being but also as a way of addressing mental well-being.  Web development could be a huge asset not only in reaching this goal of becoming an N.D. by helping provide the necessary funding, but I could certainly use it in the field of naturopathic medicine to enhance patient care, maximizing what I can offer.
	Thus, the opportuntiy to creatively contribute to the world around me on a flexible, diverse career platform appeals to me greatly.  I'm so grateful for the opportunity to learn a new career path that has so much to offer, and that can be so beneficial in so many ways.  I wish I had seen and seized the opportunity as a child, but now, as a mother, I definitely plan to get my children interested in and learning software development too!
