---
layout: post
title:  "If Only You Had Flow Control"
date:   2017-04-10 11:11:50 -0400
---


"So, Mom, I'm learning this really great procedure in programming.  It's called flow control. It basically involves taking the data that you're dealing with in your program and giving it guidance.  First, you look at your data and determine how you want it to behave, how you want it to change or stay the same based on various conditions that your data faces.  Whether you want your data to go here or there, return this or that.  It's a little like parentling, just with, you know, a lot more control and perfectly obedient children.
So, let's say your data was your children (I know you're not going to see how you would ever have had to apply this procedure to me, being the angelic child that I was,  so just picture my siblings).  Let's say you wanted your kiddos (data, remember) to eat all thier dinner while you put your feet up for a bit in the livingroom, you sit them at the table and tell them, "If you eat all your delicious,  nutritious dinner, then you get dessert.  If you don't, no dessert".  This would be like guiding your data with what we call an if,  else statement,  there are two options, getting your dessert or not getting your dessert;  based on one condition, eating all your dinner.
Now, here's where it gets awesome! Let's say you've programmed your data (kids) to automatically load thier plates into the dishwasher when they are empty.  You wander into the kitchen and see the empty plates sitting in the dishwasher and you're children sitting quietly at the table, salivating over the prospect of dessert.  This is looking good, really good.  However, you have programmed these sweet kiddos to answer, honestly,  true or false, when asked a yes or no question (this came in handy when someone happened to discover a can of paint hidden in the back of the utility closet and decided to paint the couch with it a couple days ago).  This is called getting a return from your data, in this case, we're returning booleans, i.e.,  the program evaluates your data and has it return "true" or "false" dependent on what properties it has or how it has behaved. 
So,you proceed with your data to determine how the condition has been met and what the outcome for each piece of data will be.  You say to your kids, "You ate all you're dinner"?  "True", says kid one, "true", says kid two, "false" says kid three, revealing a pile of broccoli previously concealed under her napkin.  You didn't have to hunt for the answer, didn't have to discover that broccoli balled up in a napkin in the pocket of kid three's pant pocket a week later.  Automatic, precise answers!  Obviously kid three does not get her dessert, poor kid three, it always pays to eat your broccoli.  Now it's time to supervise post dinner activites,  all building up to, thank goodness, bedtime!
Your children are wonderfully helpful and always share the repsonsibilities of post dinner clean up.  They know that if it is their turn to sweep up then they get out the broom and dust pan, but if it's their turn to wipe down the table they must have a dish towel and spray bottle, or if its their turn to wash up dishes they must start filling the sink, adding the soap, etc.  You've taught them all of this, programming, and they do it so perfectly.  This is a situation involving multiple options and multiple conditions.  If kid one is supposed to sweep, then kid one gets broom and dust pan, else, if (in programming, "elsif"), kid one is supposed to wipe the table, then kid one gets out dish towel and spray, etc.
Fast forward to bedtime, you have programmed a similar routine for bedtime, you're kids know exactly what to do and follow the routine flawlessly.  They don't lay in bed for ten minutes and then ask for water, they know that they already had water right before getting in bed.  They don't get out of bed, interrupting your wonderful forrays into the worlds of Tolkein's novels and tell you they don't need to go to bed and they want to stay up.  They stay in bed and they know why they are in bed and why they will  stay there until 8:30 the next morning, it's because you said so, rock solid logic, the beauty of programming.
